# i-MSCP 1.2.x -- Errata

## Update to version 1.2.18

Due to major changes in this new version, you must deactivate all plugins before starting the update process. After
update, you must not forget to update your plugins to latest available version before re-activating them.

### FTP usernames

VsFTPd doesn't support non-ascii characters in usernames. Therefore, to be compatible with VsFTPD and ProFTPD, the
internationalized domain names (IDN) that are part of FTP usernames will be converted to IDNA form. This means that
only ASCII usernames will be accepted.

You must not forgot to warn your customers about this change.

### i-MSCP master SQL user

Starting with this version, usage of SQL root user is prohibited. Instead, a dedicated SQL user for i-MSCP is created.
This change intends to solve issues with SQL servers that are configured to use passwordless authentication. With such
a configuration, password for the SQL root user is not set while package installation. Instead, the authentication is
done through a unix socket (a mapping between the local unix user and the SQL user is done.)

Note that while installing or reconfiguring i-MSCP, the installer will still ask you for the SQL root user info when
needed. However, this user will be only used to create and grant privileges to i-MSCP SQL users. This means that i-MSCP
will never store any data related to the SQL root user, nor change any of its properties.

Be also aware that in latest versions of the i-MSCP PhpMyAdmin package, usage of SQL root user has been prohibited for
security reasons. If you want connect to PhpMyAdmin to work on all databases, you should now use the i-MSCP master SQL
user.

### imscp-setup script

The `imscp-setup` script has been renamed to `imscp-reconfigure`.

### Parameters

#### Apache2 MOUNT_CUSTOMER_LOGS parameter

This new parameters allows the administrator to disable mount of customers httpd log directories. To disable them, you
can process as follow:

```
# sed -i'' 's/^\(MOUNT_CUSTOMER_LOGS\s\+=\).*/\1 no/' /etc/imscp/apache/apache.data
# cp /etc/imscp/apache/apache.data /etc/imscp/apache/apache.old.data
# perl /var/www/imscp/engine/setup/imscp-reconfigure -danv
```

Be aware that when mount of httpd log directories is disabled, the 'logs' directory located in the home directory of
customers is also removed.

### Permissions on customer's files (Http Web folders and Maildir)

Starting with this version, permissions on customer files are no longer set recursively by default. This allows to
avoid long running processes when a customer has thoussant of files in his Web folders or mail directory.
 
To enable recursion, you must now pass the `--fix-permissions` option to the installer (or any script supporting it). 

The `--fix-permissions` option is supported by the following scripts:

 - imscp-autoinstall (i-MSCP installer)
 - imscp-reconfigure (i-MSCP reconfiguration script)
 - set-engine-permissions.pl (Script that set engine permissions)

Note: If you're migrating i-MSCP data from one server to another, you must not forget to set this option while running the
imscp-reconfigure script.

### Services

#### imscp_mountall service

This `imscp_mountall` service mounts i-MSCP file systems when the server is rebooted. This service reads entries in a
fstab-like file located at `/etc/imscp/mounts/mounts.conf`. Unlike the entries that are added in the system fstab file,
the entries added in this file are processed in sequential order.

Third-party software components that want add entries in that file must use the API provided by the iMSCP::Mount
library.

##### Note for Proxmox's users (LXC containers)

If you want to install i-MSCP in an LXC container, you must not forget to enable bind options for the containers, else,
i-MSCP will fail to bind mount customer log directories in their home directories. You can achieve this task as follow:

On the proxmox host, edit the /etc/apparmor.d/lxc/lxc-default file and add the following statement:

```
mount options=bind,
```

You should end with something like:

```
# Do not load this file.  Rather, load /etc/apparmor.d/lxc-containers, which
# will source all profiles under /etc/apparmor.d/lxc

profile lxc-container-default flags=(attach_disconnected,mediate_deleted) {
  #include <abstractions/lxc/container-base>

  # the container may never be allowed to mount devpts.  If it does, it
  # will remount the host's devpts.  We could allow it to do it with
  # the newinstance option (but, right now, we don't).
  deny mount fstype=devpts,

  # Needed for i-MSCP inside LXC containers
  mount options=bind,
}
```

Then, once done, just reload apparmor:

```
#  service apparmor reload
```

See [Mount rules (AppArmor 2.8 and later)](http://wiki.apparmor.net/index.php/AppArmor_Core_Policy_Reference#Mount_rules_.28AppArmor_2.8_and_later.29) for further details.

### Custom DNS resource records

#### DKIM/DMARC TXT DNS resource records

It is now possible to add DKIM/DMARC TXT DNS resource records.

#### SPF DNS resource record

To fulfit specific requirements, the SPF DNS resource record type has been added to the list of allowed custom DNS
resource records. It is now possible to setup custom SPF records using SPF and TXT DNS resource records. However you
must be aware that when a custom SPF DNS resource record is detected (SPF or TXT), the default SPF DNS resource records
set by i-MSCP are automatically removed.

**Note:** As per the RFC 7208, the SPF DNS resource record is deprecated. However it is still required in some contexts.

#### TTL (Time to Live)

It is now possible to set a TTL value for any custom DNS resource record. Previsously, this was only possible for the
SRV DNS resource record. The TTL value must be expressed in seconds. Note that for safety reasons, it is not allowed to
specify a value lower than 60 seconds.

#### Validation rules for the name, canonical name and target host fields

If you do not specify a fully-qualified domain name for one of these fields (domain name ending by DOT) they will be
automatically completed with your domain name (domain for which you add the record). For instance, if you add a DNS
resource record for the `test.tld` domain, and specify the following label for the `name` field:

    sub

it will be automatically completed with your domain name as follow:

    sub.test.tld.

You must also be aware that the out-of-zone records are not allowed. Simply put, if you specify:

    google.fr.

for the `name` field, it will not pass validations.

Anyway, even if that were allowed, the DNS resource record would be ignored by the DNS server. For instance, adding
such DNS resource record for the `test.tld` zone:

    google.fr.    IN    A    192.168.1.110

would lead to:

    root@jessie:/var/cache/bind# named-compilezone -i none -s relative -o - test.tld test.tld.db 
    test.tld.db:27: ignoring out-of-zone data (google.fr)
    zone test.tld/IN: loaded serial 2016031403
    ...

## Update to version 1.2.16

### imscp_network service

This `imscp_network` service, which was responsible to configure IP addresses on the fly and set iptables rules for the
traffic logger, has been removed.

### imscp_traffic service

This new service sets iptables rules for the traffic logger on server boot.

### IP addresses management
 
IP addresses that are added via the i-MSCP control panel are now added into the network interface configuration file.
Doing this allow us to no longer depend on the MySQL server when the server is rebooted (the possibility of the MySQL
server being unavailable for unknown reasons), and also, this provides a better integration with the system. To resume,
IP addresses are now configured using interface definitions in the network interface configuration file, instead of
being configured on the fly using data pulled from the i-MSCP database.
 
IP addresses are added in the network interface file using aliased (virtual) interfaces. Those types of interfaces have
names of the form interface:integer. To avoid collisions with manually configured interfaces, i-MSCP uses integers
starting at 1000. Thus, any IP addresses added through the i-MSCP control panel will have an entry such as:
 
```
# i-MSCP [eth0:1002] entry BEGIN
auto eth0:1002
eth0:1002 inet static
        address <IP>
        netmask 255.255.255.255
# i-MSCP [eth0:1002] entry ENDING
```
 
#### IP addresses manually configured
 
IP addresses that are already present in the network interface configuration file can also be added in the i-MSCP
control panel for use with i-MSCP. In such case, i-MSCP simply skip the configuration step for them. In other words,
i-MSCP doesn't manage those IP addresses.

Be aware that IP addresses which are not present in the network interface configuration file will be added by i-MSCP,
using virtual interfaces. If you want to avoid this, you must add them in your network interface configuration file,
even if that is not really needed due to your environment (e.g: LXC containers).

#### Netmask, Broadcast and Gateway
 
At this time, it's still not possible to setup the netmask, the broadcast and the gateway through the i-MSCP control
panel. This is a feature that will be implemented in near future. However you should note that both options, the
broadcast and the gateway, are normally not needed when configuring virtual interfaces.

## Update to version 1.2.15

### Ftpd server implementations

This new version introduce support for VsFTPd (Very Secure FTP Daemon) server that can be used as alternative to the
ProFTPD server.

You can switch to this new Ftpd server implementation by running the following command:

```shell
# perl imscp-autoinstall -dr ftpd
```

## Update to version 1.2.12

### Backup feature

The 'ZIP' parameter which allows to choose compression algorithm for backup archives has been renamed to
'BACKUP_COMPRESS_ALGORITHM'. The new default value for that parameter is set to 'bzip2' instead of 'pbzip2'. This
allows to mitigate the CPU time consumption on virtual servers.
 
A new 'BACKUP_COMPRESS_LEVEL' parameter has been added, which allows to choose the compression level for backup
archives. The default value is set to '1' to mitigate the CPU time and the memory comsumption on virtual servers. Note
that this parameter is only relevant when the 'BACKUP_COMPRESS_ALGORITHM' is set to a value other than 'no'.

### Hosting plan feature

The hosting plan feature at the administrator level has been removed. From now, only the resellers can setup hosting
plans. Remember that i-MSCP doesn't offer any billing management system. The hosting plan feature is only provided to
fulfil requirements for some plugins such as BoxBilling and KaziWhmcs, or to create new client accounts through i-MSCP
interface without having to fill the limits and features.

### Mail sent to local root user 

The email address set for the administrator during i-MSCP installation is now automatically added as an alias address
in the `/etc/aliases` file for the local root user. This means that any mail sent to the local root user will be
automatically forwarded to the administrator email address.

### PHP Editor feature

#### Cascading permissions - Synchronization

From now, if you change a PHP configuration option for a specific reseller, this will also affect all its clients. For
instance, if you change the memory limit for a reseller from 256 to 128, the memory limit of all its clients will be
also lowered if higher than 128.

The same thing occurs for the PHP permissions. For instance, If you change a reseller permission from 'yes' to 'no',
the PHP permission will be also removed for its clients.

The rule here is: A client cannot have higher privileges than his reseller.

#### PHP error reporting (apache_itk httpd server implementation)

When using the ITK apache2 httpd server implementation, it is no longer possible to setup error reporting level through
the PHP editor. This decision was taken due to the fact that it's not possible to use PHP constants in Apache2 vhost
files, and that constant values differ between PHP versions. From now, if you use ITK, your clients will have to define
the error reporting level at runtime.

#### Per user, per domain or per site PHP configuration level

The PHP editor now operates according the PHP configuration level that has been choosen by the administrator during the
i-MSCP installation or reconfiguration phase. For instance, when the PHP configuration level is set to 'per_site', a
client will be able to set different PHP configuration options for its sites (if allowed).

### PHP-FPM (apache_php_fpm httpd server implementation)

Support for TCP/IP has been added. Be aware that using TCP/IP instead of UDS (Unix domain socket) can require a
tweaking of your kernel parameters (sysctl). This is mostly needed for servers that host several high traffic sites.

You can have a look at [imscp_net_sysctl.conf](imscp_net_sysctl.conf) for a sysctl configuration file example.

#### PHP configuration options (Admin level) 

The PHP configuration options at the administrator level were removed because they were too much confusing. From now,
if you want limit all clients, you must limit their resellers. For instance, you can change a PHP configuration option
value for a reseller without giving him more permissions on the PHP editor. By doing this, this will override default
PHP configuration option value for all its clients.

### Procmail package

A conflict has been added for the procmail package in the distribution package files, meaning that when running the
i-MSCP installer, this package will be automatically removed. If you need Procmail, you must edit the distribution
package file `docs/\<distro\>/\<distro_package_file\>.xml` and remove the following snippet:

```
    <package_conflict>
        procmail
    </package_conflict>
```

Note also that the `mailbox_command` Postfix configuration parameter, which is used by the local delivery agent, is no
longer set with the external procmail command.

### SASL authentication backend

Cyrus SASL is no longer used for SMTP authentication (Postfix side) when Dovecot is choosen for PO server. The Dovecot
SASL implementation is used in place.

### SQL servers

Support for MySQL 5.6.x/5.7.x, Percona 5.7.x and MariaDB 10.1 has been added. Note that support for these versions is
still experimental.

#### Disabled features

Performance Schema and event scheduler features were disabled for performance reasons. If you need them, you can create
your own .cnf file in the /etc/mysql/conf.d directory. The file must be named in such a way that it will be loaded
after the `/etc/mysql/conf.d/imscp.cnf` file.

#### Switch policy

Switch policy for SQL servers has changed. It is no longer possible to switch from/to MariaDB vendor from/to other
vendors, excepted for MariaDB 5.5. MariaDB is taking its own road with more and more dedicated features. Therefore, it
becomes difficult for us to provide an upgrade path for other SQL server vendors (MySQL, Percona) without requiring any
manual intervention.

Note that it is always possible to switch to another vendor manually. Simply put, this task is now left to the
administrator.

## Update to version 1.2.3

### Supported distributions

Support for both Debian Squeeze (6.x) and Ubuntu Lucid Lynx (10.04) has been removed. If you want to update to this new
version, you must first update your distribution to either:

* Debian ≥ Wheezy (7.x) if you're using Debian
* Ubuntu LTS ≥  Precise Pangolin (12.04) if you're using Ubuntu

### Pre-update tasks

#### Plugins

Major changes were made in the plugin API, which break compatibility with old plugin versions. Therefore, before
updating to this new version, you must delete all plugins.

Once the update is done, you must reinstall each plugin by downloading the latest version available from our plugin
store. Be aware that some plugins are not yet ready for use with this new version, such as the `Mailman` and
`OwnDDNS` plugins which require further works.

Plugins which are known to work with this new version clearly states that they are compatible with i-MSCP version >=
`1.2.3`*.

##### Event listeners

Be aware that the transitional `iMSCP::HooksManager` package, which was an alias of the `iMSCP::EventManager`
package since i-MSCP version `1.1.14`, has been removed. Thus, if you're using that package name in one of your
listeners, you must change it to `iMSCP::EventManager`, which is the real package name.

#### PHP version in use

If you're using, either `Debian Wheezy` or `Ubuntu Precise` with a PHP version that is not provided by official
repositories, you must be aware that the `php-apc` package has been added in the list of package to install. Because
that package is no longer provided for PHP versions > `5.4`, you must remove the package from the packages file
before upgrading, else, packages installation will fail.

You can find the packages file inside the i-MSCP archive, under the `docs/\<distro\>` directory.

#### Services

You must stop all i-MSCP services manually before updating, else, some of them will be unable to restart at the end of
process.

You can stop the i-MSCP services as follow:

```shell
# service imscp_panel stop
# service imscp_daemon stop
# service imscp_network stop
```

**Note:** The imscp_panel service is only available if you're upgrading from a version released under the i-MSCP serie
`1.2.x`

#### /root/.my.cnf file

The `/root/.my.cnf` file is no longer used by i-MSCP. Because this is a local file, the i-MSCP installer will not
remove it during update. Thus, if you have a database connection problem with the i-MSCP backup scripts after update,
just remove the mysqldump section from this file.

### Info for plugin's developers

#### Plugin API changes

##### New plugin.plugin_config_prev database field

A new `plugin.plugin_config_prev` database field as been added, which allows to store the previous plugin
configuration. This field is automatically filled by the plugin manager and you should never update it manually.

From the frontend, you can access the previous plugin configuration parameters using one of the following methods:

<table>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<strong>iMSCP_Plugin::getConfigPrev()</strong>
 		</td>
 		<td>
 			Allows to retrieve all previous configuration parameters
 		</td>
 	</tr>
 	<tr>
 		<td>
			<strong>iMSCP_Plugin::getConfigPrevParam()</strong>
		</td>
		<td>
			Allows to retrieve a single previous configuration parameter
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

From the backend, you can access the previous plugin configuration parameter using the `config_prev` property of the
plugin.

Be aware that usage of parameters from previous configuration is only relevant in the `disable()`, `update()`,
`change()` and `uninstall()` methods, whatever the context (from the frontEnd or the backend). Indeed, once the
`change()` method has been run successfully, the `plugin_config_prev` field is filled with the last configuration
applied on the plugin (the configuration coming from the `plugin_config` field)

More generally, the parameters coming from the previous configuration allow to do some deconfiguration / uninstallation
tasks.

##### New plugin properties (backend)

From now, the plugin manager automatically decodes the plugin info, config and config_prev fields and sets them as
plugin properties. Thus, it is not longer required to fetch these fields manually nor decode them.

To be more clear, the following news properties are set on plugin instances:

<table>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<strong>info</strong>
 		</td>
 		<td>
 			Property which contains decoded plugin info field
 		</td>
 	</tr>
 	<tr>
 		<td>
			<strong>config</strong>
		</td>
		<td>
			Property which contains decoded plugin config field
		</td>
	</tr>
 	<tr>
 		<td>
			<strong>config_prev</strong>
		</td>
		<td>
			Property which contains decoded plugin config_prev field
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

##### New require_api info field

The new plugin API version introduces a new plugin info field `require_api`, which allows you to define the i-MSCP
plugin API version that is required by your plugin in the info.php file. Thus, by declaring this field (mandatory), it
is no longer needed to implement API version compatibility check in the main plugin class. All is now done
automatically by the plugin manager, based on the value of the require_api field.

#### Backend changes

##### New CustomDNS module

This new version comes with a new `CustomDNS` module which allows to process custom DNS records without involving a
rebuilt of files which belong to HTTP server implementations (vhost file, php files...). This also allows to process
the custom DNS records more faster than before because from now they are managed by a dedicated module.

In past, each time you wanted add or delete a custom DNS record, it was mandatory to rebuilt the full configuration of
the domain (vhost file, php file ..). This involved a lot of tasks done for nothing and this was not without pose any
problems such as the useless reload of Apache (e.g. when using a plugin such as OwnDDNS which needs to update the DNS
zone files very often).

From now, if you want add your own DNS records, you must simply add them into the `domain_dns` table with the correct
status (e.g. toadd) and trigger a backend request (only needed if you add the record through the FrontEnd).

**Note:** All this also apply to the listeners files.

## Update to version 1.2.1

### Package's restricted SQL users

The minimum length for usernames and passwords is now 6 characters long. Due to this change, it is possible that during
the update you need to update them.

### Webmails

Multiple webmails are now supported. You can install either no webmail, one webmail or many webmails at same time. You
can reconfigure list of webmails to install by running the following command:

```shell
# perl imscp-autoinstall -dsr webmails
```

At this moment Roundcube and RainLoop webmails are available.

## Update to version 1.2.0

### Pre-update tasks
 
Prior to any update attempt, it is greatly recommended to deactivate all plugins through the plugin interface. Once the
update is done, you must re-activate the plugins one at a time. If something goes wrong with a plugin, you can post in
the plugins support section, and our development team will fix the issue as soon as possible.
 
### i-MSCP frontEnd access
 
i-MSCP 1.2.0 introduces support for the Nginx Web server which is currently used only by the i-MSCP frontEnd. From now,
the i-MSCP frontEnd is run through a dedicated httpd instance, and is reachable through the following http(s) ports:

```
8080 (http)
4443 (https)
```

You can set different ports by editing the `/etc/imscp/imscp.conf` file, and by re-running the i-MSCP installer. Be
aware that the common http(s) ports (80 and 443) are reserved, and therefore, must not be used. If you want keep access
to the panel though these ports, you can install the following plugin which will act as a proxy:

* https://github.com/i-MSCP/plugins/tree/master/incubator/PanelRedirect
 
Having the i-MSCP frontEnd running with a dedicated httpd instance means that even if your Apache instance is down, the
panel will stay reachable. You can manage the i-MSCP frontEnd service with the following commands:

```shell
# service imscp_panel <action>
# service nginx <action>
```

### Hook files / Listener files
 
Hooks files are now known as listener files. A listener file is a Perl script which contains one or many event
listeners registered on the events manager and triggered by the same. The old `/etc/imscp/hooks.d` directory has been
renamed to `/etc/imscp/listeners.d` directory for consistency reasons.
 
### Installer command line options
 
Many options were either added, removed or simply renamed. You can get the full list of available command line options
by running the following command:

```shell
# perl imscp-autoinstall -?
```
