# i-MSCP 1.3.x Serie -- Errata

## Version 1.3.15

### New policy for usernames set through setup dialogs

The policy for usernames set through setup dialogs, including inside the preseed file, has been updated:

- Usernames must be between 3 and 16 characters long.
- Only ASCII alphabet, number and underscore characters are allowed.

Note that following this new policy, you could have to enter new usernames during upgrade.

### Policy for passwords set through the setup dialogs

Policy for passwords set through the i-MSCP setup dialogs, which was updated in i-MSCP version `1.3.1`, is now enforced,
even for existing installations. Following this change you could have to enter new passwords during upgrade.

### Setup dialog boxes for passwords

Setup dialog boxes for passwords are now automatically pre-filled with a password that is autogenerated. You're free to
use that password or enter your own.

## Version 1.3.12

### 10_apache2_dualstack.pl listener file

If you use the `10_apache2_dualstack.pl` listener file, which provides dual-stack feature for Apache2, you're greatly
encouraged to update it to the new version available in the contrib directory of this new i-MSCP version. Indeed, major
issues were found in that listener which can cause serious problems in your i-MSCP installation .

You *MUST* update that listener prior any update attempt.

## Version 1.3.9

### Apache2 with mod_proxy_fcgi - ProxyErrorOverride directive (PHP-FPM under Apache >= 2.4.10)

Due to all issues caused by the `ProxyErrorOverride` directive, we have decided to disable it. We now provide an
alternative solution with the mod_rewrite module. In short, a request for a PHP script is now passed through
`mod_proxy_fcgi` only if the PHP script exists on the file system.

See https://i-mscp.net/index.php/Thread/15502 for further details.

#### Note for PhpSwitcher plugin users

If you use the PhpSwitcher plugin, you must update it to latest version, before upgrading to this new version.

### Database password (i-MSCP Master SQL user password)

Because i-MSCP now uses the AES-256 (Rijndael) algorithm in CBC mode to encrypt data (was Blowfish in CBC mode
previously), the database keys file will be automagically regenerated and you'll be asked again for the SQL data.

### Upgrade support for i-MSCP versions older than 1.1.0

Upgrade support for i-MSCP versions older than 1.1.0 has been dropped. If you want upgrade your i-MSCP installation from
a version older than 1.1.0, you must first upgrade to i-MSCP version 1.3.8, then upgrade to this new version.

### Support for custom DNS NS resource record

Support for custom DNS NS resource record has been added. However note that usage of this DNS resource record is
restricted to subzone delegation.

For instance let's imagine that you host the `domain.tld` zone. If you want delegate the `sub.domain.tld` subzone to an
external DNS server, you can process as follow:

1. Add the `sub.domain.tld. 3600 IN NS ns1.sub.domain.tld.` custom DNS `NS` resource record
2. Add the `ns1.sub.domain.tld. 3600 IN A 192.168.1.110` custom DNS `A` resource record (a.k.a glue record)

## Version 1.3.8

### AWStats authentication

The Apache2 `mod_dbd` authentication provider is no longer used for AWStats authentication process. AWStats login
credentials are now stored in the `/etc/apache2/.imscp_awstats` file which is processed by the Apache2 `mod_authn_file`
authentication provider.

Note that the `imscp_awstats` SQL user which was previously needed is not removed automatically by the installer. You 
must remove it manually.

### Bind9 db.tpl template file

The `db.tpl` template file has been updated. If you have replaced this template by your own template, you should check
for changes that were made in this new version.

Note that if you want reuse the same name servers for all your DNS zones, you should now use the dedicated listener that
is available at:


    https://github.com/i-MSCP/imscp/blob/1.3.x/contrib/Listeners/Named/10_named_global_ns.pl

 
By using this listener file, you will make your life easier. Editing the db.tpl file directly is not recommended.

### Control panel user passwords (transitional)

Control Panel user passwords are now hashed using the `APR-1` algorithm. The update is fully automatic. The password
hashes are updated on next successful login.

Note that due to this change, customers won't be able to connect to AWStats interface as long as their password is not
updated. They will have first to connect to the control panel.

Be aware that this is a transitional change. In near future, all passwords will be hashed using `bcrypt`, when the
support for Debian Wheezy and Ubuntu Precise will be dropped. Right now, we cannot use bcrypt because the `mod_auth_basic`
module from Apache 2.2.x (required by AWStats) doesn't supports bcrypt.

### Duplicate mounts (customer httpd log folders)

If you do have duplicate mounts for your customer httpd log directories, you must remove them prior updating to this new
version. This can be done easily by running the following command from the i-MSCP archive:

    # perl contrib/scripts/fix_duplicate_mounts.pl

This command unmount any mount found under the `/var/www/virtual directory`. If you are not sure, it is recommended to
run this command.

Note that depending of the number of duplicate mounts, this command can take up several minutes.

### dpkg(1) post-invoke tasks

i-MSCP is now able to trigger some tasks after that dpkg(1) has been invoked. Any `dpkgPostInvokeTasks()` method defined
in the i-MSCP servers/packages will be automatically invoked when necessary.

For instance, the `Package::FrontEnd` package defines a `dpkgPostInvokeTasks()` method that is responsible to update the
PHP binary for the `imscp_panel` service when the system PHP binary is being updated.

Therefore, don't be surprised if you see any i-MSCP debug output when running APT. This is the expected behavior.

## Version 1.3.6

### Editable document root

The customers can now setup an alternative `DocumentRoot` for each of their domains. This feature is mostly needed for
PHP frameworks such as `Symfony` or `Zend Framework` where the default skeleton defines a specific subfolder for the
public resources.

The alternative `DocumentRoot` must pre-exist and must be located in the default `/htdocs` directory of the domain for
which it is being set.

Note that if URL forwarding feature is activated for the domain and that the default `/htdocs` directory doesn't exists
yet, there is not possibility to setup an alternative `DocumentRoot`. In such a case, the customer must first deactivate
the URL forwarding feature.

Be also aware that this feature is only implemented for the edit pages. When a domain or subdomain is being created,
there is no possibility to setup an alternative `DocumentRoot` because at this time, the `/htdocs` directory doesn't
exists yet on the file system. This is by design.

### Proxy loop caused by the ProxyErrorOverride directive (Apache2 >= 2.4.10)

Due to a bug present in the Apache2 `mod_proxy_fcgi` module, the `ProxyErrorOverride` directive causes a infinite loop
when a PHP application (such as ownCloud) handles the error documents via PHP. This new version fix the problem by
patching the module with a patch taken from the upstream repository.

See https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=55415 for further details about the issue.

Be aware that it is assumed that you use the Apache2 packages provided by your distribution.

#### dpkg diversion

For keeping our own version of the `mod_proxy_fcgi` module when Apache2 is being updated via APT, we've added a dpkg
diversion (see dpkg-divert(8)). If after an APT update, you encounter a problem with Apache2, and more specially with
the `mod_proxy_fcgi` module, you should process as follow:

##### First step - Removing the dpkg diversion

First, be sure that the `/usr/lib/apache2/modules/mod_proxy_fcgi.so-DIST` file exists. If the file doesn't exists, this
probably means that there is no dpkg diversion and thus, you can skip this step

    # service apache2 stop
    # rm /usr/lib/apache2/modules/mod_proxy_fcgi.so
    # dpkg-divert --rename --remove /usr/lib/apache2/modules/mod_proxy_fcgi.so

Doing this will remove the diversion and reinstall the `mod_proxy_fcgi.so` module which is provided by your distribution
package. Of course now, your version of the `mod_proxy_fcgi` module will have the bug specified above.

##### Second step - Re-applying the patch and re-creating the dpkg diversion

    # cd <imscp_archive_dir>/autoinstaller/postinstall
    # sh fix_apache2_mod_proxy_fcgi.sh

This will rebuild the `mod_proxy_fcgi` module and re-recreate the dpkg diversion.

## Version 1.3.4

### Mount/Umount events propagation

Due to many problems that appeared, following changes made in the version 1.3.2 regarding the mount/umount events
propagation, it has been decided to revert them. If you're upgrading from a version >= 1.3.2, you must run the following
commands before starting the installer:

    # umount -l /var/www/virtual
    # umount -l /var/www
    # mount -a

These commands will revert the changes introduced in previous i-MSCP versions. Note that before running these commands,
it is recommended to stop the following services:

 - apache2
 - Ftp service (either protfpd or vsftpd, depending on your setup)
 - imscp_panel

## Version 1.3.2

### Mount/Umount events propagation

To fulfil the i-MSCP requirements in regard of the mount/umount events propagation, and to say compatible with virtual
environments such as `OpenVZ`, both, the `/var/www` directory and the `/var/www/virtual` directory are now mounted
on themselves as follow:

 - `/var/www` is mounted on himself as slave subtree
 - `/var/www/virtual` shared is mounted on himself as shared subtree
 
The `/etc/imscp/mounts/mounts.conf` file will contains the following entries:

    # fstab-like configuration file - auto-generated by i-MSCP
    #     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
    /var/www /var/www none bind,slave
    /var/www/virtual /var/www/virtual none bind,shared
    ...

Note that directory paths can differ according your installation layout.

## Version 1.3.1

### Pre-update tasks

#### Plugins:

Due to major changes made in the iMSCP::Mount library, versions of InstantSSH plugin older than 5.0.0 are not compatible
with this new version. Thus, if you use that plugin, you need to disable it first. Once the update done, you must
upgrade your InstantSSH plugin with the last available version.

Note: If you also use the CronJobs plugin, you must disable it as well.

#### Services

Before running the i-MSCP installer, you must stop the `imscp_panel` service manually.

### AWStats authentication

Due to a security issue which has been fixed in that new version, the customers can now connect to AWStats interface
only by using their control panel login data.

### Database update

Due to two major updates for the database, and depending on amount of traffic data you have in your i-MSCP database,
the update process may take several minutes.

### i-MSCP frontEnd (imscp_panel service)

#### Listening ports

The listening ports for the i-MSCP frontEnd were changed to make them compatible with CloudFlare. The new ports are:

- http: 8880
- https: 8443

Note that this change only affects new i-MSCP installations.

#### PHP processes

The i-MSCP frontEnd is now run through its own PHP FPM instance. Previously, the frontEnd was run through PHP CGI with
`spawn-fcgi`.

### New policy for passwords set through setup dialogs

The policy for passwords set through setup dialogs, including inside the preseed file, has been updated:

- Passwords must be between 6 and 32 characters long.
- Only ASCII alphabet and numbers characters are allowed.

Note that these changes don't affect existing installations of i-MSCP as long as the services are not reconfigured.

### IP addresses management

#### Configuration modes

It is now possible to choose the configuration mode for IP addresses that are added through the i-MSCP administration
interface. These modes are `auto` and `manual`.

Note that the `manual` mode is only appropriate on servers for which network interfaces are configured through DHCP, or
when you must set a specific netmask for the target IP address.

Be also aware that the configuration mode for the server primary IP address is set to `manual' by default.

##### Auto configuration mode

In this mode, i-MSCP will automatically configures the target IP address if not already present in the `interfaces`
configuration file. This involve the following tasks:

###### When adding a new IP

- Adding the IP address configuration into the `interfaces` file
- Bringing the network interface up

###### When removing an IP

- Removing the IP address configuration from the `interfaces` file
- Bringing the network interface down

##### Manual configuration mode

In this mode, i-MSCP will remove any entry which would have been previously added for the target IP address in the
`interfaces` configuration file and skip its configuration. In such case, the configuration is left to the administrator.

Note that in this mode, i-MSCP won't try to bring up nor bring down the network interface.

#### Installer

It is no longer possible to configure additional IP addresses through the installer. From now, the installer will only
ask you for the server's primary IP address.

Note that by default, the server's primary IP address will always be set with the `manual` configuration mode. You're
free to change the configuration mode through the administration interface.

#### Netmask

It is now possible to set/edit the netmask for each IP address.

Note that if you choose the `manual` configuration mode for the IP address, the netmask is only informational.

#### Network interface card (NIC)

It is now possible to edit the NIC for each IP address.

Note that if you choose the `manual` configuration mode for the IP address, the NIC is only informational.

### Pages for disabled domains (accounts)

The pages for disabled domains have now their own skeleton directory (e.g. /etc/imscp/skel/domain_disabled_pages) which
is copied into the root Web directory (e.g. /var/www/virtual) during installation.

The pages for disabled domains are now stored outside of the customer home directories.

### PHP opcode cache

The PHP opcode cache (OPcache or APC) is now enabled by default if you use PHP as Apache2 module (ITK), or through
PHP-FPM.

To make this change, two new parameters were added into the `/etc/imscp/php/php.data` configuration file which are:

#### PHP_OPCODE_CACHE_ENABLED

This parameter allows the administrator to enable/disable the PHP opcode cache for the customers. Default value is
`1` (enabled).

**Note:** If you change the value of this parameter, you must not forget to run the `imscp-reconfigure` script.

#### PHP_OPCODE_CACHE_MAX_MEMORY

This parameter allows the administrator to setup the amount of memory that can be used by the PHP opcode cache. You
must not forget that the PHP opcode cache is shared across all customers. This is by design and this cannot be changed.
Default value for this parameter is `256 MiB`. However, if you host several PHP applications, and if you have enough
memory available on your server, it is recommended to increase this value accordingly.

**Note:** If you change the value of this parameter you must not forget to run the `imscp-reconfigure` script.

## Version 1.3.0

First of all, if you're updating from a version older than `1.2.16`, you should read the 1.2.x errata file. You can find
that file in the ./docs directory of the i-MSCP archive.

### Pre-update tasks

Prior to any update attempt, you must deactivate all plugins through the plugin interface. Once the update is done, you
must update all your plugins to latest available version, and re-activate them one by one. If something goes wrong with
a plugin, you can post in the plugins support section, and our development team will fix the issue as soon as possible.

### External mail feature

The external mail feature has been greatly simplified. From now, activating the external mail feature for a domain only
configures i-MSCP mail server to relay mail through external MX. The MX and SPF DNS resource records for external mail
servers are no longer created by i-MSCP. The customers must now create those DNS resource records by themselves, either
through their registrar interface if they use the DNS server provided by their registrar, or  through the custom DNS
resource records interface if their DNS are managed by i-MSCP server.

Note that following those changes, the external mail feature has been reseted, meaning that customers will have to
reactive it if needed.

### FTP usernames

VsFTPd doesn't support non-ascii characters in usernames. Therefore, to be compatible with VsFTPD and ProFTPD, the
internationalized domain names (IDN) that are part of FTP usernames will be converted to IDNA form. This means that
only ASCII usernames will be accepted.

You must not forgot to warn your customers about this change.

### i-MSCP master SQL user

Starting with this version, usage of SQL root user is prohibited. Instead, a dedicated SQL user for i-MSCP is created.
This change intends to solve issues with SQL servers that are configured to use passwordless authentication. With such
a configuration, password for the SQL root user is not set while package installation. Instead, the authentication is
done through a unix socket (a mapping between the local unix user and the SQL user is done.)

Note that while installing or reconfiguring i-MSCP, the installer will still ask you for the SQL root user info when
needed. However, this user will be only used to create and grant privileges to i-MSCP SQL users. This means that i-MSCP
will never store any data related to the SQL root user, nor change any of its properties.

Be also aware that in latest versions of the i-MSCP PhpMyAdmin package, usage of SQL root user has been prohibited for
security reasons. If you want connect to PhpMyAdmin to work on all databases, you should now use the i-MSCP master SQL
user.

### imscp-setup script

The `imscp-setup` script has been renamed to `imscp-reconfigure`.

### Parameters

#### Apache2 MOUNT_CUSTOMER_LOGS parameter

This new parameters allows the administrator to disable mount of customers httpd log directories. To disable them, you
can process as follow:

```
# sed -i'' 's/^\(MOUNT_CUSTOMER_LOGS\s\+=\).*/\1 no/' /etc/imscp/apache/apache.data
# cp /etc/imscp/apache/apache.data /etc/imscp/apache/apache.old.data
# perl /var/www/imscp/engine/setup/imscp-reconfigure -danv
```

Be aware that when mount of httpd log directories is disabled, the 'logs' directory located in the home directory of
customers is also removed.

### Permissions on customer's files (Http Web folders and Maildir)

Starting with this version, permissions on customer files are no longer set recursively by default. This allows to
avoid long running processes when a customer has thousands of files in his Web folders or mail directory.
 
To enable recursion, you must now pass the `--fix-permissions` option to the installer (or any script supporting it). 

The `--fix-permissions` option is supported by the following scripts:

 - imscp-autoinstall (i-MSCP installer)
 - imscp-reconfigure (i-MSCP reconfiguration script)
 - set-engine-permissions.pl (Script that set engine permissions)

Note: If you're migrating i-MSCP data from one server to another, you must not forget to set this option while running the
imscp-reconfigure script.

### imscp_mountall service

This `imscp_mountall` service mounts i-MSCP file systems when the server is rebooted. This service reads entries in a
fstab-like file located at `/etc/imscp/mounts/mounts.conf`. Unlike the entries that are added in the system fstab file,
the entries added in this file are always processed in sequential order.

Third-party software components that want add entries in that file must use the API provided by the iMSCP::Mount
library.

### Custom DNS resource records

#### MX DNS resource record

It is now possible to setup MX DNS resource records through the custom DNS resource records interface. Be aware that
default MX DNS resource records, as the SPF DNS resource records, are removed only if the external mail feature is
turned on for the target domain.

#### DKIM/DMARC TXT DNS resource records

It is now possible to add DKIM/DMARC TXT DNS resource records.

#### SPF DNS resource record

To fulfit specific requirements, the SPF DNS resource record type has been added to the list of allowed custom DNS
resource records. It is now possible to setup custom SPF records using SPF and TXT DNS resource records. However you
must be aware that when a custom SPF DNS resource record is detected (SPF or TXT), the default SPF DNS resource records
set by i-MSCP are automatically removed.

**Note:** As per the RFC 7208, the SPF DNS resource record is deprecated. However it is still required in some contexts.

#### TTL (Time to Live)

It is now possible to set a TTL value for any custom DNS resource record. Previsously, this was only possible for the
SRV DNS resource record. The TTL value must be expressed in seconds. Note that for safety reasons, it is not allowed to
specify a value lower than 60 seconds.

#### Validation rules for the name, canonical name and target host fields

If you do not specify a fully-qualified domain name for one of these fields (domain name ending by DOT) they will be
automatically completed with your domain name (domain for which you add the record). For instance, if you add a DNS
resource record for the `test.tld` domain, and specify the following label for the `name` field:

    sub

it will be automatically completed with your domain name as follow:

    sub.test.tld.

You must also be aware that the out-of-zone records are not allowed. Simply put, if you specify:

    google.fr.

for the `name` field, it will not pass validations.

Anyway, even if that were allowed, the DNS resource record would be ignored by the DNS server. For instance, adding
such DNS resource record for the `test.tld` zone:

    google.fr.    IN    A    192.168.1.110

would lead to:

    root@jessie:/var/cache/bind# named-compilezone -i none -s relative -o - test.tld test.tld.db 
    test.tld.db:27: ignoring out-of-zone data (google.fr)
    zone test.tld/IN: loaded serial 2016031403
    ...
