# i-MSCP 1.4.x Serie -- Errata

First of all, if you're updating from an older i-MSCP Serie, you **MUST** read the
archived errata files that you can find in the [./docs](.) directory.

## Version 1.4.7

### Alternative URLs feature

#### Enabling/Disabling

Alternative URLs feature can now be disabled. You can enable/disable that
feature by executing the `imscp-reconfigure` script as follow:

```
perl /var/www/imscp/engine/setup/imscp-reconfigure -dar alt_urls_feature
```

#### User prefix in alternative URLs

Unix user prefix was removed from alternative URLs.

### Apache2 server

#### Vhost templates files

i-MSCP Apache2 vhost template files were updated. If you use your own template
files, don't forget to sync them.

### DNS server (Bind9)

#### Zone templates files

i-MSCP Bind9 zone template files were updated. If you use your own template
files, don't forget to sync them.

### Event listeners

It is now possible to register event listeners that will be executed at most
once per event.

As a reminder, the default behavior is to execute the event listeners each time
the events for which they are registered are triggered. For instance the
following script:

```perl
#!/usr/bin/perl

use strict;
use warnings;
use lib '/var/www/imscp/engine/PerlLib';
use iMSCP::Bootstrapper;
use iMSCP::EventManager;

iMSCP::Bootstrapper->getInstance( )->boot( );

my $eventManager = iMSCP::EventManager->getInstance( );
$eventManager->register( 'testing', sub { print "testing event has been triggered (call: $_[0])\n"; 0; } );

# Triggers the "testing" event 3 times
$eventManager->trigger( 'testing', $_ ) for 1..3;

1;
__END__
```
would output:

```shell
root@jessie:~# perl test.pl 
testing event has been triggered (call: 1)
testing event has been triggered (call: 2)
testing event has been triggered (call: 3)
```

Now, the same thing for a listener that we want execute at most once per event.
For instance the following script:

```perl
#!/usr/bin/perl

use strict;
use warnings;
use lib '/var/www/imscp/engine/PerlLib';
use iMSCP::Bootstrapper;
use iMSCP::EventManager;

iMSCP::Bootstrapper->getInstance( )->boot( );

my $eventManager = iMSCP::EventManager->getInstance( );
$eventManager->registerOne( 'testing', sub { print "testing event has been triggered (call: $_[0])\n"; 0; } );

# Triggers the "testing" event 3 times
$eventManager->trigger( 'testing', $_ ) for 1..3;

1;
__END__
```

would output:

```shell
root@jessie:~# perl test.pl 
testing event has been triggered (call: 1)
```
As you can see, the registered event listener has been executed only once.

Note that the [iMSCP::EventManager::registerOne()](../engine/PerlLib/iMSCP/EventManager.pm#L99)
method is a simple wrapper around the [iMSCP::EventManager::register()](../engine/PerlLib/iMSCP/EventManager.pm#L57)
method. We could have done the same thing above as follows:

```perl
#!/usr/bin/perl

use strict;
use warnings;
use lib '/var/www/imscp/engine/PerlLib';
use iMSCP::Bootstrapper;
use iMSCP::EventManager;

iMSCP::Bootstrapper->getInstance( )->boot( );

my $eventManager = iMSCP::EventManager->getInstance( );
$eventManager->register( 'testing', sub { print "testing event has been triggered (call: $_[0])\n"; 0; }, 0, 1 );

# Triggers the "testing" event 3 times
$eventManager->trigger( 'testing', $_ ) for 1..3;

1;
__END__
```

would output:

```shell
root@jessie:~# perl test.pl 
testing event has been triggered (call: 1)
```

## Version 1.4.6

### Pre-update tasks

Due to change of location for i-MSCP's lock files, you must run the following
commands manually before upgrading to this
new version:

```shell
# service cron stop
# service imscp_daemon stop
# pkill -TERM -f imscp
```

Note that the i-MSCP installer will automatically restart the services for you.

### Apache2 - mod_proxy_fcgi

Changes from Apache `2.4.11` regarding the `PATH_INFO` environment variable
were backported to Apache `2.4.10`. This allow to fix problems encountered
with [Seafile](https://www.seafile.com).

See also:

- [proxy-fcgi-pathinfo](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/en/mod/mod_proxy_fcgi.html#env)
- [Seafile - Apache2 - mod_proxy_fcgi - PATH_INFO handling](https://i-mscp.net/index.php/Thread/16921-Seafile-Apache2-mod-proxy-fcgi-PATH-INFO-handling/)

## Version 1.4.5

### FrontEnd

#### Nginx template files

In version 1.4.4, both the `00_master.conf` and `00_master_ssl.conf` template
files were merged together in the [00_master.nginx](../configs/debian/frontend/00_master.nginx)
template file. This change has been reverted due to restrictions on usage of
the Nginx `IF` directive. There are now two templates, one for http, another
for https:

 - [00_master.nginx](../configs/debian/frontend/00_master.nginx)
 - [00_master_ssl.nginx](../configs/debian/frontend/00_master_ssl.nginx)

## Version 1.4.4

### Distributions

Support for Devuan Jessie 1.0 has been added. See the [Devuan Project Page](https://devuan.org/)
for further details.

### DNS server (Bind9)

#### Zone template files

i-MSCP Bind9 zone template files were updated. If you use your own template
files, don't forget to sync them.

#### Zone files format

Zone files are now stored in binary format for rapid loading by named.

If you need revert that behavior, you can always change the value of the
`BIND_DB_FORMAT` configuration parameter which is available in the
`/etc/imscp/bind/bind.data` file, and perform an i-MSCP reconfiguration.
However note that you shouldn't have to do that. You can always see the text
version of the zone files, either by making AXFR queries on the zone names, or
by reading files that are located in the `/etc/imscp/bind/working` directory.

#### Zone files location

Location of zone files has been changed as follow:

- Master zone files are now located in the `/var/cache/bind/imscp/master directory`
- Slave zone files are now located in the `/var/cache/bind/imscp/slave directory`

### Event listeners

#### Event listener priorities (backend)

Backend's event listeners can now be registered with an optional priority in
range [-1000 .. 1000] (default to 1). Listeners registered with highest
priorities are executed first. For instance the following script:

```perl
#!/usr/bin/perl

use strict;
use warnings;
use lib '/var/www/imscp/engine/PerlLib';
use iMSCP::Bootstrapper;
use iMSCP::EventManager;

iMSCP::Bootstrapper->getInstance( )->boot( );

my $eventManager = iMSCP::EventManager->getInstance( );
$eventManager->register( 'testing_event', sub { print "First registered listener\n"; 0; }, -99 );
$eventManager->register( 'testing_event', sub { print "Second registered listener\n"; 0; }, 10 );
$eventManager->register( 'testing_event', sub { print "Third registered listener\n"; 0; } );
$eventManager->register( 'testing_event', sub { print "Fourth registered listener\n"; 0; }, 1 );
$eventManager->trigger( 'testing_event' );

1;
__END__
```

would output:

```shell
root@devuan:~# perl test.pl
Second registered listener
Third registered listener
Fourth registered listener
First registered listener
```

#### Object as event listener

It is now possible to register an object as an event listener where instance
methods named with the event names for which the object is registered are the
listeners. For instance the following script:

```perl
#!/usr/bin/perl

package Testing;

sub new
{
    bless { }, shift;
}

sub onFirstTestingEvent
{
    print "I'm listening on the onFirstTestingEvent event\n";
    0;
}

sub onSecondTestingEvent
{
    print "I'm listening on the onSecondTestingEvent event\n";
    0;
}

package main;

use strict;
use warnings;
use lib '/var/www/imscp/engine/PerlLib';
use iMSCP::Bootstrapper;
use iMSCP::EventManager;

iMSCP::Bootstrapper->getInstance( )->boot( );

my $testingObject = Testing->new( );

my $eventManager = iMSCP::EventManager->getInstance( );
$eventManager->register( [ 'onFirstTestingEvent', 'onSecondTestingEvent' ], $testingObject );
$eventManager->trigger( 'onFirstTestingEvent' );
$eventManager->trigger( 'onSecondTestingEvent' );

1;
__END__
```

would output:

```shell
root@devuan:~# perl test2.pl 
I'm listening on the onFirstTestingEvent event
I'm listening on the onSecondTestingEvent event
```

Note that `AUTOLOAD` feature is also supported. Thus, the following script:

```perl
#!/usr/bin/perl

package Testing;

sub new
{
    bless { }, shift;
}

sub AUTOLOAD
{
    print "I'm listening on whatever event for which I'm registered\n";
}

package main;

use strict;
use warnings;
use lib '/var/www/imscp/engine/PerlLib';
use iMSCP::Bootstrapper;
use iMSCP::EventManager;

iMSCP::Bootstrapper->getInstance( )->boot( );

my $testingObject = Testing->new( );

my $eventManager = iMSCP::EventManager->getInstance( );
$eventManager->register( [ 'onFirstTestingEvent', 'onSecondTestingEvent' ], $testingObject );
$eventManager->trigger( 'onFirstTestingEvent' );
$eventManager->trigger( 'onSecondTestingEvent' );

1;
__END__
```

would output:

```shell
root@devuan:~# perl test2.pl 
I'm listening on whatever event for which I'm registered
I'm listening on whatever event for which I'm registered
```

Bear in mind that for performance reasons, the events manager never check for
existence of the listeners when you register an object as an event listener.
Thus, if a method is missing and that the `AUTOLOAD` subroutine is not defined
the failure will be raised only when the event will be triggered. For instance,
the same script as above without the `AUTOLOAD` subroutine defined would output
something like:

```shell
root@devuan:~# perl test2.pl 
[FATAL] iMSCP::EventManager::__ANON__: Can't locate object method "onFirstTestingEvent" via package "Testing" ...
```

### FrontEnd

### Nginx template files

Note that both the `00_master.conf` and `00_master_ssl.conf` template files
were merged together in the [00_master.nginx](../configs/debian/frontend/00_master.nginx)
template file. There is now only one Nginx server configuration file for both
HTTP and HTTPS.


### Mail service  - Server hostname added as domain in control panel

In previous i-MSCP versions, there was a bug allowing administrator to add the
server hostname in the control panel as domain, and create new mailboxes for
that domain. From Postfix perspective, the server hostname, which is added in
the [mydestination](http://www.postfix.org/postconf.5.html#mydestination)
parameter, is a canonical domain for which a user maps to a local unix user
account. Thus, this was a mistake to not prohibit creation of new mailboxes for
that domain through the control panel. Indeed, a virtual mailbox added for a
canonical domain wouldn't work, and worse, this would violate Postfix rules
that state that a canonical domain ***MUST NOT*** be added in the
[virtual_mailbox_domains](http://www.postfix.org/postconf.5.html#virtual_mailbox_domains)
map. 

This new version addresses this issue by prohibiting creation of new mailboxes
(normal mail accounts) for the server hostname when it is added in the control
panel as domain. Note that it's still possible to create `forward` and
`catch-all` accounts.

Be aware that any mailbox found for that domain will be
**removed during upgrade**. However, mixed accounts (normal+forward) will be
turned into `forward` only account.

See also: [Postfix - Canonical versus hosted versus other domains](http://www.postfix.org/VIRTUAL_README.html#canonical)

### Network setup

#### PRIMARY server IP

It is now possible to select the `None` option for the primary IP while
setup-in or reconfiguring i-MSCP. Selecting this option means that i-MSCP will
configures the services to listen on all interfaces.

Note that this option is more suitable for Cloud computing services such as [Scaleway](https://www.scaleway.com/)
and [Amazon EC2](https://aws.amazon.com/en/ec2/).

See also: [i-MSCP with a Scaleway (cloud computing service) server](https://i-mscp.net/index.php/Thread/16645-i-MSCP-with-a-Scaleway-cloud-computing-service-server/)

#### Domain IP addresses

From now on, if an address IP that is assigned to a customer is not found in
database, there will be a fallback to the `INADDR_ANY` IP address. For Apache2
vhost files, this means that wildcard will be used in place of an IP address.

Doing this should help mitigating upgrade and migration problems when an IP
address is not longer available on the system.

Note that the fallback is made at runtime by the backend. The administrator
will still needs solve the situation through the frontEnd by following these steps:

- Assigning a new IP to resellers
- Assigning a new IP to customers
- Removing the old IP

In a later version, this procedure which is a bit unconfortable will be automated.

### Plugin errors handling (Backend)

Plugin errors, outside of those raised by the plugin handler (Module::Plugin),
are no longer returned to the caller. That means that an error which has been
raised by a plugin will no longer cause a general failure.

This change should help mitigate upgrade errors caused by plugins that are not
compatible with newest i-MSCP versions. If an error is raised by a plugin, that
plugin will be left in inconsistent state and the administrator will still need
solve the situation through the plugin management interface, or manually in
worse of case.

## Version 1.4.3

### Apache2 version (Ubuntu Trusty Thar)

Apache2 (2.4.10) is now installed through the backports repository. This allow
us to not longer depends on the Apache2 fastcgi module when the PHP SAPI is FPM.

### Distribution packages files

Distribution packages files were updated. If you're using the
`10_packages_override.pl` i-MSCP listener file to override your distirbution
packages file, don't forget to sync it.

### Maildir++ quota information

Maildir++ quota information were re-added in the frontEnd (client interface).
The quota information are now extracted from each mailbox `maildirsize` file
and are cached in session for 5 minutes. Note that if the file doesn't exists
yet, no quota information will be showed.

In case of Courier IMAP/POP server, the maildirsize file is automatically
created on mailbox account creation/update while in case of Dovecot IMAP/POP
server usage, it is created on first IMAP login. Note that if there is not
quota set for a mailbox, no quota information will be showed.

## Version 1.4.1

### Apache2 vlogger script

Due to an important bug found in vlogger script, and that has been fixed in
this new version, it is recommended to run the following command to make sure
that there is no vlogger process left on your system before upgrading:

```
# pkill -KILL -f vlogger
```

## Version 1.4.0

### Distributions

- Support for Debian Wheezy has been dropped - Softwares and libraries were too
  old
- Support for Ubuntu Precise Pangolin (12.04) has been dropped. - Anticipating
  EOL on April 2017

### Httpd server (Apache2) vhost templates 

Several Apache2 vhost templates were merged.

- The domain_redirect.tpl, domain_redirect_ssl.tpl and domain_ssl.tpl templates
  were merged in the domain.tpl template
- The domain_disabled_ssl.tpl template has been merged in the
  domain_disabled.tpl template

From now, if you need to known the context of the Apache2 vhost template when
developing a plugin or a listener file, you must use the new `VHOST_TYPE`
parameter that is passed to event listeners. For instance, in the
`40_apache2_security_headers.pl` listener file, we are testing the context as
follow:

```perl
        return 0 unless $tplName eq 'domain.tpl'
            && grep( $_ eq $data->{'VHOST_TYPE'}, ( 'domain', 'domain_ssl' ) );
```

See [40_apache2_security_headers.pl](https://github.com/i-MSCP/imscp/blob/1.4.x/contrib/Listeners/Apache2/40_apache2_security_headers.pl)
for further details.

The value of the `VHOST_TYPE` parameter can be one of the following:

- `domain`: Vhost for domains
- `domain_ssl`: SSL Vhost for domains
- `domain_fwd`: Vhost for forwarded (redirected, proxied) domains
- `domain_ssl_fwd`: SSL vhost for forwarded (redirected, proxied) domains
- `domain_disabled`: Vhost for disabled domains
- `domain_disabled_ssl`: SSL vhost for disabled domains
- `domain_disabled_fwd`: Vhost that forwards http requests to https for
   disabled domains

Note: Here a domain is either a domain, a domain alias or a subdomain.

### i-MSCP log files

There is now only one log file per module. In other words, event logging is now
made on a per module basis. Before, event logging was made on a per item basis,
possibly leading to hundred files stored in the /var/log/imscp directory.

There are no reasons to keep logs for all processed items. Generally speaking,
administrator only has interest for logs of last processed item, mostly when
there was an error raised.

Note that the Modules::Plugin module is not concerned by those changes.

### Listener files

Many listener files were updated according changes made in this new version,
specially the Apache2 listener files. If you use one or many of them, you
should update them.

### Passwords storage

All passwords are now stored using a scheme other than `PLAIN` to prevent
anybody with access to the i-MSCP database (such as a hacker) from stealing
users' passwords and using them to access other services.

#### Ftp user passwords

The `rawpasswd` plaintext password column has been removed from the i-MSCP
database. The password scheme for FTP users is still unchanged (SHA512-crypt).

#### Mail account passwords

New password scheme for Mail accounts is `SHA512-crypt`. We chose SHA512-crypt
because it is supported by all software products integrated with i-MSCP. Update
is automatic. Mail account passwords will be hashed automatically during
upgrade.

Be aware that due to this change, only the `plaintext` authentication
mechanisms (PLAIN, LOGIN) are now supported. This is due to the fact that
non-plaintext authentication mechanisms require either plaintext passwords or
password scheme that belongs to the chosen authentication mechanism. To avoid
problems with plaintext passwords that are sent during authentication
processes, it is recommended to use SSL/TLS connections only.

You must not forget to inform your customers about this change. Mail clients
configured to use authentication mechanisms such as MD5-CRAM will fail to
authenticate.

#### SQL user passwords

The `sqlu_pass` plaintext password column has been removed from the i-MSCP
database.

### PHP support

PHP support is now provided through Ondřej Surý repository or PPA. As reminder,
Ondřej Surý is the official Debian/Ubuntu maintainer for PHP packaging.

Note that PHP versions that are considered EOL by upstream PHP team are no
longer supported.

#### PHP versions

It is now possible to choose between many PHP versions through the installer.
At this time, PHP `5.6`, `7.0` and `7.1` are available. You can switch to
another PHP version by executing the following commands:

```
# cd <imscp_archive_dir>
# perl imscp-autoinstall -dr php
```

Note that this new feature is not a replacement for the PhpSwitcher plugin.
Without the PhpSwitcher plugin, there is no way to provide multiple PHP
versions to customers.

### PhpMyAdmin and Pydio auto-login feature

The auto-login feature providing customers with a button to auto-logon in
PhpMyAdmin or Pydio without having to provide login data has been removed. One
of requirement for that feature are plaintext passwords that are now removed for
security reasons. An alternative method will be implemented in a later release.

### Postfix SASL authentication backend

SASL authentication backend used by the Postfix MTA depends on the PO server in
use (Dovecot or Courier).

- Courier: Postfix MTA uses Cyrus SASL as authentication backend. Courier
  authentication library (authdaemon) is used as password verifier.
- Dovecot: Postfix MTA uses Dovecot SASL as authentication backend.

### Web folder skeletons (default /.well-known directory)

The `/.well-known` directory has been added to domain, domain alias and
subdomain Web folder skeletons. From now, the `/.well-known` directory will be
automatically created on new domain, domain alias or subdomain creation. This
directory is stored inside of the default document root: `./htdocs/.well-known`.

Be aware that if you change the document root through the i-MSCP control panel,
that directory will be no longer reachable.

#### Note regarding the i-MSCP LetsEncrypt plugin

The LetsEncrypt plugin comes with its own directory for serving ACME resources.
To make this to work, the plugin defines a specific Apache2 alias on the
`/.well-known/acme-challenge/` URL path. In that specific case, ACME resources
are not served from the default `/.well-known` directory. These are served from
the directory of the LetsEncrypt plugin. Note that this only apply to ACME
resources.
