# i-MSCP 1.5.x Serie (Ennio Morricone) -- Errata

First of all, if you're updating from an older i-MSCP Serie, you **MUST** read
the previous errata files that you can find in the [./docs](.) directory.

## Version <release> (build <release_build>)

Maintenance release.

### Distributions

 - Support for Ubuntu Trusty Thar (14.04) has been dropped. Please update your
system to Ubuntu Xenial Xerus (16.04), or Ubuntu Bionic Beaver (18.04).
 - Support for Debian Buster (10.x) has been added (experimental).
 - Support for Devuan ASCII (2.x) has been added.

#### Package files

All distribution packages files were updated. If you make use of the
your own packages file, you must not forget to update it.

### DNS

#### Overriding of default DNS resource records

It is now possible to override any default DNS resource record through the
custom DNS record interface.

Custom DNS records are now injected at runtime and therefore, they are not
longer stored in transitional (working) db zone file. Doing this make possible
to re-inject default DNS records more easily when those are not longer
overridden.

#### Zone template files

The DNS zone templates files located at `/etc/imscp/bind/parts` were updated.
If you make use of your own, you must not forget to sync them with latest
changes.

### Entities processing (DB tasks processor)

In the previous i-MSCP versions, the database tasks processor stopped
processing on the first failure which was not really a correct behavior as not
all entities belong to the same aggregate.

From now on, the DB task processor will continue to process the other entities
as long as the entities they belong to are in consistent state.

### FrontEnd requirements

- The i-MSCP frontEnd now require PHP 7.3.
- Dependencies are now installer through the PHP dependency manager (composer),

# i-MSCP daemon

It is now possible to override default listen port for the i-MSCP daemon. The
way to process depends on the init system you're using, that is, `SysVinit`,
`Systemd`, or `Upstart`.

First, you need change the default port in the /etc/imscp.conf file to make
i-MSCP frontEnd able to connect:

```
IMSCP_DAEMON = <port>
```

then, you need override default init script as follows:

## SysVinit

For SysVinit, you need to create the `/etc/default/imscp_daemon` file with the
following content:

```
LISTEN_PORT=<port>
```

## Systemd

For Systemd, you need to override the service unit as follows:

```
# systemctl edit imscp_daemon
[service]
ExecStart=
ExecStart=/var/www/imscp/daemon/imscp_daemon -l <port>
```

## Upstart

For Upstart, you need override the default job by creating the
`/etc/init/imscp_daemon.override` file with the following content:

```
exec /var/www/imscp/daemon/imscp_daemon -l <port>
```

### Installer

#### Setup dialogs

Starting with this new version, the installer will no longer display the setup
dialogs when a default value is available for them. This change was made to
make the beginners life a bit easier, but also to make the lazy sysadmins happy
when the default values fit their needs.

Of course, it is still possible force the installer to display all dialogs by
passing-in the `--reconfigure` command line option, even in the context of a
new installation.

Finally, the sysadmins can always make use of the preseeding feature for a full
unattended installation.

If you want known which are the default values used by the installer, you can
have a look at the [preseeding](./preseed.pl) template file.

#### WHIPTAIL(1) support

Support for the `WHIPTAIL(1)` program has been added to the i-MSCP dialog
library. You can force usage of the `WHIPTAIL(1)` program by setting the
`IMSCP_DIALOG_FORCE_WHIPTAIL` environment variable to a `TRUE` value. For
instance:

```
# IMSCP_DIALOG_FORCE_WHIPTAIL=1 perl imscp-autoinstall -d
```

Without that environment variable, `DIALOG(1)` program will be preferred if it
is available.

### Listener files

The `10_named_override_default_rr.pl` listener file has been dropped as it
is now possible to override any default DNS resource record through the custom
DNS record interface. If you make use of that listener file, you **MUST** not
forget to remove it from your i-MSCP installation prior updating.

### PHP support

Support for both PHP 7.2 and PHP 7.3 has been added.

Starting with this new release, All PHP versions are always installed. This
allows the `PhpSwitcher` plugin to use them, instead of relying on
self-compiled PHP versions.

Unused PHP versions (FPM instances) are stopped and disabled.

### Plugins

i-MSCP plugins (frontEnd) are now executed through the
[Slim](http://www.slimframework.com) micro-framework.

#### RoundcubePlugins plugin

Versions of the RoundcubePlugins plugin which are older than version `3.0.0`
are not compatible with this new i-MSCP version. If you make use of an older
version, you need uninstall it first prior updating your i-MSCP installation.

Once your i-MSCP installation has been updated to this new version, you can
grab the latest RoundcubePlugins plugin version and install it.

### Packages (addons)

Both Pydio and Net2FTP packages were dropped.

### Services

#### SQL users

SQL users for the various services such as `proftpd`, `vsftpd, `dovecot`, and
`courier-authdaemon` are now randomly generated.

## Version 1.5.3 (build 2018120800)

Bugfixe release.

## Version 1.5.3 (build 2018120700)

Bugfixes release.
 
### Networking configuration providers

A new networking configuration provider for [netplan.io](https://netplan.io/)
has been added. Note that the `networkd` renderer is assumed.
 
### PHP distribution packages
 
PHP distributions packages are not longer automatically purged, even if they
don't match the selected PHP version. This is required for 3rd-party software
such as the PhpSwitcher plugin which could rely on additional packaged PHP
versions.
 
### Supported distributions

#### Ubuntu Bionic Beaver (18.04)

Support for Ubuntu Bionic Beaver (18.04) has been added.

##### SQL server (Percona packages)

Percona packages are provided only for amd64 architecture.

## Version 1.5.3 (build 20180516)

Maintenance release.

## Version 1.5.2

Canceled release.

## Version 1.5.1 (build 20170908)

Maintenance release.

## Version 1.5.0 (build 20170905)

Minor release (stable release).

### Mail accounts

#### Default mail accounts

Default mail accounts are now protected by default. However, the system
administrator can always disable the protection through the administrator
settings interface.

As a reminder, default mail accounts are a restricted list taken from those
that are listed in the [RFC 2142](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2142.txt).

The following default mail accounts are created:

- abuse      (Customer Relations)
- hostmaster (DNS service)
- postmaster (SMTP service)
- webmaster  (HTTPD service)

Beware that un-protecting default mail accounts is discouraged. These accounts
are needed.

It is important to note that if the default mail accounts are not protected and
that a customer turn a default mail account into a normal mail account, that
last will no longer be seen as a default mail account.

#### Mail accounts accounting

##### Catch-all accounts

Catch-all accounts are now counted in the customer mail accounts limit. These
accounts behave like forward mail accounts for an entire domain and therefore,
there are no valid reasons to discard them from the mail accounts limit.

### Cosmetics (frontEnd)

#### Unlimited objects

Unlimited objects, whatever their nature, are now represented by the `∞`
mathematical infinity symbol.

### Output compression (FrontEnd)

Output compression at the frontEnd side has been removed. Output is compressed
at the Nginx Web server level.

Note that all related parameters were also removed.

### Userland cache (FrontEnd)

The frontEnd now make use of the [APCu](http://php.net/manual/en/book.apcu.php)
userland cache for caching of several resources such as localization,
translation, service statuses. This list is non exhaustive.

If for any reason, the APCu extension is not available, there is a fallback to
another but more slower cache backend (File caching).

Keep in mind that on production systems, it is really important to disable the
`DEBUG` mode by setting the `DEBUG` configuration parameter to `0` in your
`/etc/imscp/imscp.conf` file. If you don't do so, access to the frontEnd will
become really slow and a warning will be showed at the administrator UI level.
