# i-MSCP 1.6.x Serie (Alan Silvestri) -- Errata

First of all, if you're updating from an older i-MSCP Serie, you **MUST** read
the [previous errata](1.5.x_errata.md) file from bottom to top.

## Version 1.6.0

### APT /etc/apt/sources.list file

i-MSCP now provides its own `/etc/apt/sources.list` configuration file. If you
need to add your own APT repositories, you should put them under the
`/etc/apt/sources.list.d` directory.

See [SOURCES.LIST(5)](https://manpages.debian.org/stretch/apt/sources.list.5.en.html)
for further details.

If you really want provide your own `/etc/apt/sources.list` file, you can
always make use of the [iMSCP::Listener::APT::Source::List](../contrib/Listeners/APT/10_apt_sources_list.pl)
i-MSCP listener file. If you do so, you'll have to make sure that the required Debian, Ubuntu
or Devuan repositories are present for the expected suite and components.

Note that no support will be provided by our team if your `/etc/apt/sources.list` file doesn't fit
with i-MSCP pre-requisites.

### Distributions

Support for Debian 10/Buster (testing) has been added. Note that support is
still experimental and that this version is not ready yet for production use.

### Dovecot configuration

It is now possible to override the default Dovecot configuration by adding
configuration files into the new `/etc/dovecot/imscp.d` directory.

That is now the recommended way to customize the Dovecot configuration. The
configuration files that are put into the `/etc/dovecot/imscp.d` directory are
kept in place when updating/reconfiguring i-MSCP, excepted the configuration
files that are bound to the i-MSCP dovecot listener files, that is, those ending
by `_listener.conf`. For instance: `30_dovecot_namespace_listener.conf`

### i-MSCP frontEnd

#### Dependencies

The frontend dependencies are now installed through the [PHP dependency manager (composer)](https://getcomposer.org/).

Current dependencies are as follows:

- Net_DNS2 - Native PHP5 DNS Resolver and Updater(v1.4.x)
- PHP Secure Communications Library (v2.0.x)
- Pure PHP IDNA Converter (v1.1.x)
- Zend Escaper component (v2.5.x)
- Zend Framework (v1.12.x)

#### HTML Templates

HTML templates, including HTML template blocks defined within them, are now
resolved only once, and put in cache for faster processing.

If you need to develop something for the i-MSCP frontEnd, you must not forget
to disable both the OPcode cache (OPcache) and the userland cache (APCu).

- You can disable OPcache by editing the `/usr/local/etc/imscp_panel/php.ini`
file and by restarting the imscp_panel service, or by editing the
`/etc/imscp/frontend/frontend.data` file and by triggering an i-MSCP
reconfiguration.
- You can disable APCu by enabling the debugging mode in the
`/etc/imscp/imscp.conf` file.

#### PHP

The i-MSCP FrontEnd now makes use of the best supported PHP version
(currently PHP 7.1), regadless of the selected PHP alternative for customers.
In other words, even when the `PhpSwitcher` plugin is not used, the PHP version
used by the i-MSCP frontEnd can be other than the PHP version used by
customers.

Note that you still need the `PhpSwitcher` plugin if you want make your
customers able to switch between different PHP versions. Without the
PhpSwitcher plugin, there are no way to switch between different PHP versions,
even if there are more than one version available. The i-MSCP installer will
disable unused PHP (FPM) versions to prevent them to start on server boot.

### i-MSCP installer

It is now possible to reconfigure more than one item at time by passing a comma
separated list of items to the `--reconfigure` command line option.

For instance:

```
perl imscp-installer -dr httpd,php
```

Note that this enhancement applies also to the i-MSCP reconfiguration script.

#### Distribution packages

The installer now make sure that all distribution packages are up-to-date and
that the pre-requisites are met before starting the installation process.

The distribution INSTALL files were updated according these changes.

### i-MSCP listener files

Several listener files were updated according changes made in core. If you use
one or many listener files, you must update them prior running the installer.

#### PHP

All available PHP versions are now installed, regardless of the selected PHP
alternative for customers. Doing this will make it possible to enhance the
`PhpSwitcher` plugin by using PHP versions as provided by Ondřej Surý PHP
repository instead of relying on self compiled PHP versions.

The installer now makes use of the best supported PHP version
(currently PHP 7.1).

##### Configuration level

PHP configuration level is now configurable through the PHP editor. The
administrators set the PHP configuration level for the resellers and the
resellers set the PHP configuration level for their customers.

As reminder, the available PHP configuration levels are as follows:

- Per site  : Different PHP configuration for each domain, including subdomains
- Per domain: Identical PHP configuration for each domain, including subdomains
- Per user  : Identical PHP configuration for all domains, including subdomains

### i-MSCP master SQL user (imscp_user)

Following our security policy hardening, authentication data that belong to the
i-MSCP master SQL user are no longer stored into the
`/etc/mysql/conf.d/imscp.cnf` configuration file.

In previous versions, the `root` user was able to connect to SQL server through
`MYSQL(1)` command-line tool, and perform SQL backup using `MYSQLDUMP(1)`
without having to enter any user credentials.

With this new version, that is no longer possible, unless the `unix_socket`
authentication plugin is enabled for the user.

For people that have lost the i-MSCP master SQL user password, or that have
made an unattended i-MSCP installation, they can always recover it by executing
the [get_imscp_master_sql_user_pwd.pl](../contrib/scripts/get_imscp_master_sql_user_pwd.pl) 
Perl script. For instance:

```shell
root@stretch:/usr/local/src/imscp# perl contrib/scripts/get_imscp_master_sql_user_pwd.pl 
[INFO]  Your i-MSCP master SQL user is         : imscp_user
[INFO]  Your i-MSCP master SQL user password is: 7U4Bk2cmANuicQ7P
[WARN]  Information based on data from your /etc/imscp/imscp.conf file.
```

### i-MSCP packages

#### Net2FTP

The `Net2FTP` package has been removed. The Net2FTP filemanager is no longer
maintained, making it unsafe.

#### Pydio

The `Pydio` package has been temporarily disabled as the version provided by our
composer package is no compatible with PHP ≥ 7.0. Once our package will be
updated, we'll re-enable it.

### Network setup

From now on and if the administrator explicitely set the primary server IP with
the `None` option, the `INADDR_ANY` IP address will be used in all cases,
regardless of the current IP assigned to domains.

For Apache2 this means that wildcard will be used in place of an IP address in
vhost files.

See also: [1.4.x errata -- Network setup](1.4.x_errata.md#network-setup)

#### Primary server IP

When the primary server IP is reconfigured, it is now possible to ask the
installer to replace the IP address of all client by that new IP address.

### i-MSCP plugins

Due to major changes made in i-MSCP core, you must disable **ALL** plugins
prior any update attemp. Once you have updated your i-MSCP installation, you
**MUST** upload the newest plugin versions prior re-activating them.

### i-MSCP Servers

All i-MSCP servers now provide an abstract implementation, making possible to
add support for multiple distributions such as Centos, Fedora, OpenSUSE
(Leap)...

Support for distributions other than Debian like distributions will be added
over the time. You're free to help us to implement the i-MSCP servers for your
favorite distribution.

#### Cron job server

Support for `SYSTEMD.CRON(7)` has been added. `SYSTEMD.CRON(7)` is an alternative to
the historical Vixie `CRON(8)` daemon. See the SYSTEMD.CRON(7) manpage for further details.

Note that the `SYSTEMD.CRON(7)` i-MSCP server implementation is not available under
distributions that are not running SYSTEMD(1) as init system.

### SQL servers

Support for older SQL servers versions has been dropped. From now on, the
following versions are supported:

- MariaDB ≥ 10.1
- MySQL ≥ 5.7
- Percona ≥ 5.7

If you really want use an older SQL server version, you can always make use of
the [Packages](../contrib/Listeners/Packages/10_packages_override.pl) listener
file to provide your own packages file. However, bear in mind that no support
will be provided by our team in such a case.
